the following has been made possible
with a grant from the lincoln financial
foundation sterile field and sterile
dressing change gather the following
equipment clean gloves sterile gloves
sterile gauze sterile gauze sponges
sterile abdominal dressing and tape
review the physicians order provide
privacy check the patient's
identification band verify their
identity ask for their name and birth
date assess patient for allergies assess
patients pain and Medicaid explain the
procedure open the sterile gloves
review the sterile gloving video if
needed
flip the gloves to one side the
remaining area of the packaging is now a
sterile field open the dressings gauze
and sponges over the sterile field
stay within a one inch border from the
edge open the sterile saline solution
lip the solution by pouring a little
over the trash pour the solution into an
empty sterile sponge container put on
clean gloves
inspect the wound appearance size and
edges assess for changes in color and
odor of any drainage assess site for
sutures staples drains and tubes put on
sterile gloves
wet sponge with sterile saline
bunge the gauze in your hands so that
the fingers are away from the skin one
side and one swipe moving from top to
bottom of the wound throw away sponge
get a new sponge with saline for the
other side swipe throw away sponge get
another new sponge with saline for the
center swipe throw away sponge apply
gauze to catch any excess drainage apply
abd or sterile dressing on incision
secure with tape
remove gloves
perform hand hygiene right date time and
initials on dressing tape put equipment
into appropriate receptacle perform hand
hygiene assist patient to a position of
comfort document in patients chart